+++
title="C++ on WSL"
description="Starter"
date=2021-12-26

[taxonomies]
categories = ["Doc"]
tags = ["C++"]
+++

## C++ on WSL

These documentation is completely followed by [the official VsCode document](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/config-wsl).

Using VsCode to edit source code, compiling the source code on Linux using the g++ compiler and debugging on Linux using GDB. They are not installed by default on Ubuntu.

### Environment

1. update sys dependencies:

   ```sh
   sudo apt-get update
   ```

   or download the latest versions of the system packages as well by:

   ```sh
   sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
   ```

1. install GNU compiler tools and the GDB debugger:

   ```sh
   sudo apt-get install build-essential gdb
   ```

1. verify g++ and gdb:

   ```sh
   whereis g++
   whereis gdb
   ```

After setting up the environment, create a `.cpp` file and vscode will pop up a hint window to ask you to install C/C++ extensions. Let's omit this step and head forward to the next step.

### Build

Choose `Terminal > Configure Default Build Task` and in the dropdown select `C/C++: g++ build active file`. A `tasks.json` file should be created in the `.vscode` folder. Learn more `tasks.json` variables in the [variables reference](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/variables-reference).

### Run

Choose `Tasks: Run Build Task` and will see an executable file after the build is done.

### Debug

Press `F5` and choose `C++ (GDB/LLDB)`, then choose `g++ build and debug active file` from the dropdown. This will create a `launch.json` file in the `.vscode` folder. More details please visit [debug-helloworldcpp](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/config-wsl#_debug-helloworldcpp).

### Configurations

In order to get more control over the C/C++ extension, we can create a `c_cpp_properties.json` file in `.vscode` folder via `C/C++: Edit Configuration (UI)` command.
